# Miscellaneous Tool/Command Line Suggestions

This was originally written as an Ed post intended for the students of [Stanford's Winter 2024 140E offering](https://github.com/dddrrreee/cs140e-24win) (which I TA'd).

I'll periodically go through and update this more---you don't need to read any/all of it, but hopefully it will contain something you find useful in working for this class. I unfortunately lost all of my progress when my laptop died., so I'll be updating this version a little more this lab.

## Navigating in the terminal

Keyboard shortcuts (note that these use emacs bindings by default, see the `terminal` subheading under `vim` if you'd prefer to use those):

* `CTRL+U` delete to the beginning of the line

* `CTRL+K` delete to the end of the line

* `META+B` go back a word (meta will be dependent on your terminal emulator settings, escape should always work, alt may or may not work)

* `META+F` go forward a word (can be prefixed by a `META+number` for a count)

* `CTRL+R` to search for a particular command (can keep searching backward using `CTRL+R` or can go forward again using `CTRL+S)`

* `CTRL+X CTRL+E` open `$EDITOR` (maybe `$VISUAL`) and execute the resulting commands from whatever file you save

Useful commands:

* `cd -`---change directory to the last directory you were in.

* `pushd/popd`---used for keeping track of a stack of working directories (worth looking at other options, e.g., +1 which you can use to rotate the directory stack)

You can set up some aliases like Dawson talked about.

```bash
alias 140="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/"
alias 140pi="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/libpi"
alias 140l1="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/1-compile"
alias 140l2="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/2-trusting-trust"
alias 140l3="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/3-gpio"
alias 140l4="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/4-cross-checking"
alias 140l5="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/5-interrupts"
alias 140l6="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/6-threads"
alias 140l7="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/7-bootloader"
alias 140l8="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/8-uart"
alias 140l9="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/9-device-int"
alias 140l10="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/10-debug-hw"
alias 140l11="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/11-imu-i2c"
alias 140l12="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/12-i2c+mailboxes"
alias 140l13="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/13-ss-equiv"
alias 140l14="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/14-ss-equiv-deux"
alias 140l15="cd $CS140E_2024_PATH/labs/15-pinned-vm"
```

I like using `fzf` to quickly navigate between directories. In my `~/.zshrc`, I have

```
alias cf.='cd "$(find . -type d | fzf)"'
alias cf='cd "$(find . -wholename '\''./*.*'\'' -prune -o -type d -print | fzf)"'
alias ve='vi "$(find . -type f | fzf)"'
```

`cf` gives you a fuzzy finding prompt with directories below your current value, `cf.` does the same thing but not ignoring hidden directories, and `ve` lets you edit a file with a fuzzy finder (e.g., so you can do `ve` and then type `lab/1/1.c` to edit the part one code.

## Useful Utilities

* You can use `grep -r` to recursively search for a term. Other common flags I use include `-l` (print the file name only), and `-A` and `-B` (for printing context). This can be useful when you want to know where something is called (e.g., where does `some_fn` appear->`grep -r some_fn` or `grep some_fn *.S *.c`. I like using `ripgrep` (`rg`, <https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep>) for this purpose, which is a multithreaded equivalent written in rust.

* `bear` (<https://github.com/rizsotto/Bear>) is useful for use with the `clangd` language server (if you're using `vim/nvim`, I assume you know whether or not you're using it---if you're using vscode, I think it's the default). If you just run `bear -- make`, it will generate `compile_commands.json` such that your lsp can find definitions (works better than e.g., `ctags` since it can figure out functions made with the `MK_FN` macro).

## Vim/Neovim Config

I use vim/neovim, so I can't give as much commentary to how to use vscode effectively. I use neovim preferentially over vim since I think the integration with lua as a scripting language leads to a richer plugin ecosystem, and I like that it has builtin lsp integration (although I miss my `:term` using a pseudo terminal). Some plugins I find useful are

* `lazy.nvim` (<https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim>) as my plugin manager---I think the plugin manager you pick is relatively arbitrary (in vim, I still use Vundle). It lazily loads plugins which can be nice.

* `VonHeikemen/lsp-zero.nvim`---nice utility for handling lsp things so I just kind of do't think about them, especially with `williamboman/mason.nvim` and `williamboman/mason-lspconfig.nvim` which make it so I can `:LspInstall` when I open a new file type where I haven't downloaded the lsp yet.

Separately, I like using `junnegunn/fzf` and `junnegun/fzf.vim` which make it convenient to switch between files/buffers/etc... I have the following lines

```vim
nnoremap <c-f>f :Files
nnoremap <c-f>b :Buffers
nnoremap <c-f>L :Lines
nnoremap <c-f>l :BLines
nnoremap <c-f>r :Rg
nnoremap <c-f>w :Windows
nnoremap <c-f>t :Tags
nnoremap <c-f>m :Marks
nnoremap <c-f><c-f> :Files<cr>
nnoremap <c-f><c-b> :Buffers<cr>
nnoremap <c-f><c-L> :Lines<cr>
nnoremap <c-f><c-l> :BLines<cr>
nnoremap <c-f><c-r> :Rg<cr>
nnoremap <c-f><c-w> :Windows<cr>
nnoremap <c-f><c-t> :Tags<cr>
nnoremap <c-f><c-m> :Marks<cr>
```

### Splits

I like using splits and having my terminal in my vim instance; the relevant commands and keystrokes include `:term` (open a terminal), `:split`, `:vsplit`, and `<C-W>` prefixed commands (`<c-w>n` split the current buffer horizontally, `<c-w>v` split the current buffer vertically, `<c-w>[hjkl]` move to the pane to the direction specified in the normal vim way, `<c-w><c-w>` alternate between buffers, `<c-w>[HJKL]` move the current pane in the direction specified by the letter, `<c-w>r` rotate the list of panes, `<c-w>_` maximize the current pane vertically, `<c-w>|` maximize the current pane horizontally, `<c-w>+` increase height (takes an optional count), `<c-w>-` decrease height, `<c-w><` decrease width, `<c-w>>` increase width, `<c-w>=` equalize splits). I'll sometimes use tabs as well, normally using `:tabe` and `gt`, `gT` to navigate between them.

### Terminal

As mentioned under the main terminal navigation subheading, while the default terminal emulator settings probably use emacs key bindings, you can easily switch this to using vim keybindings. In `bash` or `zsh` the 1-second fix is to run `set -o vi` (you might want to throw that in your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc)`. In `bash`, the equivalent to `C-X C-E` is `<ESC>v`, in `zsh`, it's a little more complicated (<https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/6620/how-to-edit-command-line-in-full-screen-editor-in-zsh>). In bash and other programs that use gnu `readline` (`python` is the other obvious one off the top of my head, although also `gdb`, sadly not `node`), you can modify your `.inputrc` to achieve a similar effect just throw in the lines

```
set editing-mode vi
set keymap vi-command
```


## 140E Stuff

### debugging `asm`

You can just `b` to a function you've defined in C, where you're likely more comfortable (I'll normally just define a function like `void tmp_debug(uint32_t reg1)` that calls `clean_reboot` at the end (since normally we clobber registers in a way that makes the rest hard to interpret). If you get a linker error since you're branching to something that doesn't exist in a given test case, you can either change your `Makefile` so you're only looking at the failing test case, or you can add a `.weak` symbol in the asm file with the name you're using.

### When to read-modify-write

The basic idea is we read modify write when we want to keep some of the old state. There are some heuristics you can use for this: "can I give sensible values to every bit/byte?" (yes->probably write whole thing, no->probably rmw).
